# Introduction
THis paper aims to assess infection risk in hospitals and some potential causes for infection risk. The analysis in this memo utilizes a dataset with 113 observations across 11 variables from randomly selected hospitals across New York State. A regression model was built to assess the causal factors associated with infection risk in hospitals, also known as **nosocomial infection**.This multiple linear regression model will locate the line that most closely fits the hospital data according to the **ordinary least squares (OLS) method**, which minimizes the sum of squared differences between the true data and the regression line. This allow us to estimate the interaction of various independent variables with the **dependent variable, infection risk (InfctRsk)**. This regression model explain the correlation between significant predictor variables and Infection Risk performance.

# Literature Review
Before checking the dataset for inconsistencies, missing values, and other irregularities, we reviewed medical literatures on the risk of contracting hospital-acquired infections. A review of available research suggests the likelihood of developing an infection in a hospital setting is predicted by a variety of potential factors. These factors generally fall into three categories, including characteristics of the individual, characteristics of the hospital, and characteristics of the individual’s hospital experience.
******

# Methodology
This research paper explains the effects of a series of factors on hospital infection risk. The data used included ten possible predictor variables (length of hospital stay, patient age, amount of bacterial cultures tested, amount of x-rays taken, number of patient beds in the hospital, whether the hospital is affiliated with a tier 1 or tier 2 medical school, the region of New York State the hospital is located in, the total number of patients in the hospital, the number of nurses working at the hospital, and the range of services offered at the hospital) and one outcome variable (Infection Risk), with a total of 113 observations in the 11 variables. </b>
The dataset used was provided intact for this study, thus information on random sampling of hospitals and patients and general data collecton methods is not available at this time. In future studies using this data, we would like to have more information on the source of this dataset and methods used in collecting the data. We would also be interested in breaking down the age variable to hone in on the two most vulnerable age groups, according to our literature review, infants under one year of age, and elderly individuals over the age of seventy. A clarification of this variable may explain the inconsistencies in the outcomes for age in our tests and align better with existing literature. </b>
Upon analyzing the dataset for normality, variable class, and outliers and creating visual models of the data, we began building the regression model using a user-determined regression method. We chose our potential predictor variables for the regression models based on the literature review, the initial data analysis, and a correlation matrix. Starting with the potential predictor variable of “Stay”, representing length of hospital stay, we added a new variable to the model in seven steps, keeping or discarding the additional variables based on if their addition increased the Adjusted R2 of the regression model and a statistically significant result on an ANOVA test. After formulating the regression model, which was a regression of Infection Risk using the variables “Stay,” “Culture,” “Xray,” “Region,” “Facilities,” we ran a series of tests on the regression model for outliers, leverage, influence, normality of the distribution, heteroscedasticity, multicollinearity, autocorrelation, model fit, and linearity. Specifics of these tests are outlined in the Technical Appendix.
